main.md, before:

---
# vim: set ft=markdown.pandoc colorcolumn=100:

title: 'Containers'
subtitle: 'Cloud Computing Homework 2'
author: '107021129 黃明瀧'
date: 2022-05-20

maketitle: true
---

# A. Screenshots for Task 1

![List containing the container for task 1](./images/docker-list.png)

![Running the container and the client](./images/hello.png)

# B. Screenshots for Task 3

The client was modified to read destination IP and port from stdin.

![Deployment configuration](./images/deployment.png)

![Service configuration](./images/service.png)

![`kubectl` and client outputs](./images/misc.png)

# C. Performance of Container vs VM (Task 2)

All the experiments are ran for at least 3 times,
and the average values is presented in the following table.

| Item | VM | Container |
|------|----|-----------|
| Sysbench CPU (Events/s)| 18486 | 18630 |
| Sysbench Memory (Events/s) | 61141029 | 65703919 |
| Sysbench File IO (Events/s) | 17737 | 1066502 |
| iperf (Gbps) | 1.19 | 9.68 |

In terms of CPU and memory performance,
there is no dramatic difference between the VM and the container.
With the help of KVM, the VM inside QEMU run pretty much as well as the container,
with very minor performance hit.

File IO speed in the VM is severely impacted by the fact that the file operations goes through the qcow2 disk image format,
which,
as described in the documentation of QEMU,
"has the largest overhead compared to raw images when it needs to grow the image".
Since the experiments were done in a fresh VM,
the images had not allocated the space required for the files written by sysbench,
and did the allocation on-the-fly while sysbench runs,
causing file IO to be very slow.

`iperf` shows that the container has a huge advantage (with more than 8 times better throughput) in communicating with the host machine via network,
since the network traffic is essentially travelling between processes on the host itself.

# D. Difference between Docker Container and VM

As opposed to virtual machines, which are themselves fully virtualized systems,
Docker containers are essentially a bunch of carefully managed and restricted processes
running on the same host.
This enables containers to be much more lightweight
and enables better sharing of the computational resources on the host
(for example, memory allocation and overcommitting is much more easier),
at the cost of having less isolation and security.

Docker containers typically have different use cases than virtual machines.
Docker containers are nowadays mainly used for deploying stable development and production environments,
which is not commonly done using virtual machines due to the bloat of virtual machine images.

# E. Explain "Deployment", "Service" and "Pod"

## Deployment

*Deployment* in Kubernetes is a declarative way to specify how to create and manage the *pods*
that constitutes a container app.
Typically things like the container images to be used
and the number of replicas are specified in a deployment.

## Service

A *service* in Kubernetes groups one or more pods in a cluster as a logical application,
presenting them to the outside world as a network service.
In this assignment, a `NodePort` service is used to expose the socket service on all nodes.

## Pod

A *pod* in Kubernetes is an instance (or several instances) of running Docker containers,
and is the smallest unit of execution.
When there are multiple containers inside a single pod,
the containers share network and storage resources.

# F. Kubernetes

Kubernetes is a system for managing containerized applications and services.
It provides us with many features such as *service discovery* (exposing container with a DNS name),
*rollouts* and *rollbacks* (gradually reaping old instances and creating new ones),
*fault tolerance* (restarts unheathy instances),
*load-balancing*, and more.

The need of Kubernetes stems from the fact that managing containers *across multiple servers* at scale is hard.
Kubernetes presents a tightly integrated interface and declarative configurations,
which allows the operators to do so in a maintainable way.

# G. Container Technology

Container technology is a kind of *OS-level* virtualization that runs multiple userspaces,
with restrictions on the resources they can access,
while the userspaces are referred to as *containers*.
Container technology is widely used in today's cloud computing environments for several reasons:

- Container is lightweight.
- Container bundles all the dependencies together, making shipping easy.
- Deployment with containers is fast.
- Deployment is more scalable than VM's.
- Container can run everywhere, reducing lock-in's.

# H. Container Data

By default, the storage presented to the container instances are *empheral* local storage,
which is implemented by using union filesystem on top.
With help of the storage driver behind the scenes,
the data written to the root of different container instances are actually written to different (temporary) actual locations,
and the lifetime is tied to the instance,
making them deleted upon container exit.

To actually persist the files, Docker provides *volumes* and *bind mounts* for the purpose.
*Volumes* exposes storages managed by Docker to the containers,
while *bind mounts* exposes a directory on the host directly into the containers.
These can be done, respectively, by

```sh
docker volume create my-volume
docker run --mount source=my-volume,target=/app ...
```

and

```sh
docker run -v /path/to/host/app:/app ...
```

.

# I. Why Pods?

Kubernetes uses Pod as a thin wrapper around a container (or several containers).
Within a pod, the containers are able to *share the local network* and other resources,
which must all *be deployed together* onto a specific executing node.
Without the notion of pods, one cannot express this idea in the configurations when using Kubernetes,
which is why pods exists.

# J. Kubernetes vs Docker Swarm

Compared to Kubernetes, which is a feature-rich all-in-one orchestration platform,
Docker Swarm is simpler and easier to learn and setup.
Kubernetes has grown to be a large FOSS community,
and is offered by the huge cloud providers these days as managed services,
which is why it's much more popular than its competitors.

# K. Docker Security Issues

Docker is considered to be less secure than virtual machines,
since there are many things that are shared between the containers and the host,
including the kernel, the (part of, including `/sys` and the devices) filesystems,
and more.
Container breakout and resource starvation is also much more probably than virtual machines.

# L. Windows Container and Hyper-V

The difference between Windows Container and Hyper-V on Windows
is analogous to the difference between Docker and QEMU/KVM on Linux.
Windows Container runs the containers that shares the kernel with the host Windows operating system,
while the Hyper-V hypervisor creates fully virtualized VM's.

Commit message:

Add description for container image size

main.md, after:

---
# vim: set ft=markdown.pandoc colorcolumn=100:

title: 'Containers'
subtitle: 'Cloud Computing Homework 2'
author: '107021129 黃明瀧'
date: 2022-05-20

maketitle: true
---

# A. Screenshots for Task 1

![List containing the container for task 1](./images/docker-list.png)

![Running the container and the client](./images/hello.png)

The size of the container image is minimized by using multi-stage builds functionaliy provided by Docker.
A statically-linked binary built in under Alpine Linux container is copied to an empty (`FROM scratch`) container,
producing an image with only 13 kilobytes.

# B. Screenshots for Task 3

The client was modified to read destination IP and port from stdin.

![Deployment configuration](./images/deployment.png)

![Service configuration](./images/service.png)

![`kubectl` and client outputs](./images/misc.png)

# C. Performance of Container vs VM (Task 2)

All the experiments are ran for at least 3 times,
and the average values is presented in the following table.

| Item | VM | Container |
|------|----|-----------|
| Sysbench CPU (Events/s)| 18486 | 18630 |
| Sysbench Memory (Events/s) | 61141029 | 65703919 |
| Sysbench File IO (Events/s) | 17737 | 1066502 |
| iperf (Gbps) | 1.19 | 9.68 |

In terms of CPU and memory performance,
there is no dramatic difference between the VM and the container.
With the help of KVM, the VM inside QEMU run pretty much as well as the container,
with very minor performance hit.

File IO speed in the VM is severely impacted by the fact that the file operations goes through the qcow2 disk image format,
which,
as described in the documentation of QEMU,
"has the largest overhead compared to raw images when it needs to grow the image".
Since the experiments were done in a fresh VM,
the images had not allocated the space required for the files written by sysbench,
and did the allocation on-the-fly while sysbench runs,
causing file IO to be very slow.

`iperf` shows that the container has a huge advantage (with more than 8 times better throughput) in communicating with the host machine via network,
since the network traffic is essentially travelling between processes on the host itself.

# D. Difference between Docker Container and VM

As opposed to virtual machines, which are themselves fully virtualized systems,
Docker containers are essentially a bunch of carefully managed and restricted processes
running on the same host.
This enables containers to be much more lightweight
and enables better sharing of the computational resources on the host
(for example, memory allocation and overcommitting is much more easier),
at the cost of having less isolation and security.

Docker containers typically have different use cases than virtual machines.
Docker containers are nowadays mainly used for deploying stable development and production environments,
which is not commonly done using virtual machines due to the bloat of virtual machine images.

# E. Explain "Deployment", "Service" and "Pod"

## Deployment

*Deployment* in Kubernetes is a declarative way to specify how to create and manage the *pods*
that constitutes a container app.
Typically things like the container images to be used
and the number of replicas are specified in a deployment.

## Service

A *service* in Kubernetes groups one or more pods in a cluster as a logical application,
presenting them to the outside world as a network service.
In this assignment, a `NodePort` service is used to expose the socket service on all nodes.

## Pod

A *pod* in Kubernetes is an instance (or several instances) of running Docker containers,
and is the smallest unit of execution.
When there are multiple containers inside a single pod,
the containers share network and storage resources.

# F. Kubernetes

Kubernetes is a system for managing containerized applications and services.
It provides us with many features such as *service discovery* (exposing container with a DNS name),
*rollouts* and *rollbacks* (gradually reaping old instances and creating new ones),
*fault tolerance* (restarts unheathy instances),
*load-balancing*, and more.

The need of Kubernetes stems from the fact that managing containers *across multiple servers* at scale is hard.
Kubernetes presents a tightly integrated interface and declarative configurations,
which allows the operators to do so in a maintainable way.

# G. Container Technology

Container technology is a kind of *OS-level* virtualization that runs multiple userspaces,
with restrictions on the resources they can access,
while the userspaces are referred to as *containers*.
Container technology is widely used in today's cloud computing environments for several reasons:

- Container is lightweight.
- Container bundles all the dependencies together, making shipping easy.
- Deployment with containers is fast.
- Deployment is more scalable than VM's.
- Container can run everywhere, reducing lock-in's.

# H. Container Data

By default, the storage presented to the container instances are *empheral* local storage,
which is implemented by using union filesystem on top.
With help of the storage driver behind the scenes,
the data written to the root of different container instances are actually written to different (temporary) actual locations,
and the lifetime is tied to the instance,
making them deleted upon container exit.

To actually persist the files, Docker provides *volumes* and *bind mounts* for the purpose.
*Volumes* exposes storages managed by Docker to the containers,
while *bind mounts* exposes a directory on the host directly into the containers.
These can be done, respectively, by

```sh
docker volume create my-volume
docker run --mount source=my-volume,target=/app ...
```

and

```sh
docker run -v /path/to/host/app:/app ...
```

.

# I. Why Pods?

Kubernetes uses Pod as a thin wrapper around a container (or several containers).
Within a pod, the containers are able to *share the local network* and other resources,
which must all *be deployed together* onto a specific executing node.
Without the notion of pods, one cannot express this idea in the configurations when using Kubernetes,
which is why pods exists.

# J. Kubernetes vs Docker Swarm

Compared to Kubernetes, which is a feature-rich all-in-one orchestration platform,
Docker Swarm is simpler and easier to learn and setup.
Kubernetes has grown to be a large FOSS community,
and is offered by the huge cloud providers these days as managed services,
which is why it's much more popular than its competitors.

# K. Docker Security Issues

Docker is considered to be less secure than virtual machines,
since there are many things that are shared between the containers and the host,
including the kernel, the (part of, including `/sys` and the devices) filesystems,
and more.
Container breakout and resource starvation is also much more probably than virtual machines.

# L. Windows Container and Hyper-V

The difference between Windows Container and Hyper-V on Windows
is analogous to the difference between Docker and QEMU/KVM on Linux.
Windows Container runs the containers that shares the kernel with the host Windows operating system,
while the Hyper-V hypervisor creates fully virtualized VM's.
